In this hands-on activity,
we will be querying documents in MongoDB.
First, we will start a MongoDB server and
then run the MongoDB Shell.
We will see how to show the databases and
collections in the MongoDB Server.
We will look at an example
document in the database and
see how to find distinct values for
a field.
Next, we will search for
specific field values and
see how to filter fields
returned in a query.
Finally, we will search using
regular expressions and operators.
Let's begin,
first we'll start the MongoDB server.
Open the terminal window by clicking on
the terminal icon, the top of the toolbar.
We'll cd into
Downloads/big-data-3-mongodb.
We'll start the MongoDB server by running
./mongodb/bin/mongod --dbpath db.
The arguments dbpath db
specified that the database on
MongoDB is in the directory named db.
Run this to start the server.
Next, we'll start the MongoDB Shell so
that we can perform queries.
We'll open another terminal window.
Again, cd into
Downloads/big-data-3-mongodb.
We'll start the shell by
running ./mongodb/bin/mongo.
We can see what databases are available in
the MongoDB server by running the command,
show dbs.
We've created the sample database
with JSON data from Twitter.
We can use the use command
to change to this database.
We'll run use sample.
We can see the collections in this
database by running, show collections.
There's only one collection called users.
So, all of the queries will be
using the users collection.
Let's count how many documents there
are in the users collection by writing
db.users.count.
We can look at one of these documents
by writing db.users.findOne.
This document contains
Jason from a Twitter tweet.
You can see the field names
here with their values.
There are also nested fields
under the user field.
And each of these fields also has values.
You can find the distinct values for
particular field,
by using the distinct command.
Let's find the distinct values for
the username field.
We'll write
db.users.distinct("user_name").
Next, let's find all the documents in
this collection where the field username
matches the specific value.
The value we'll search for
is ActionSportsJax.
We'll run the command db.users.find.
And the field name is username, and
the value we're searching for
is ActionSportsJax.
Results of this query is
compressed all in one line.
If we append the .pretty
to the previous query.
We can see the formatted output.
So we'll run the same
command with append .pretty.
We can filter the fields
returned from the queries.
Let's perform the same query again but
only show the tweet_id field.
We can do this by adding a second
argument to the find command.
So we'll run the same command again,
but add a second argument,
saying tweet_ID: 1.
The underscore ID field is a primary
key used in all documents in MongoDB.
You can turn this off by adding
another field to our filter.
We'll run the same command again,
but turn of _ID.
Next, we use the regular expression search
to find strings containing the document.
For example, if we want to find all
the tweets containing the text FIFA,
we can run db.users.find tweet_text FIFA.
There are no results in this query
because this query is searching for
tweet text equals FIFA.
That is the entire contents and
the value of tweet_text must be FIFA.
Instead, if we want to look for
FIFA anywhere in the tweet_text,
we can do a regular expression search.
To do this,
replace the double quotes with slashes.
So we'll run the same command again.
But replacing double quotes with slashes.
We can count how many documents are
returned by this query by running the same
command again, but appending .count.
We can also search for documents in
MongoDB where the field values are greater
than or less than a certain value.
For example, lets find tweet
mention count greater than six.
We'll run db.users.find, and
the field name is tweet_mentioned_count.
And we want to look for the value
where this field is greater than six.
So I'll enter a .